docs/contributing.md, before:

---
uri: "/docs/contributing/"
title: "Contributing"
---

This document will be most useful for developers that want to contribute to WPGraphQL and want to run the docker container locally as well as utilize xdebug for debugging and tracing.

In order to continue, you should follow steps to setup Docker running on your machine.

### Build the WordPress Site

The `app` docker image starts a running WordPress site with the local wp-graphql directory installed and activated. Local changes to the source code is immediately reflects in the app.

First step, clone the source for wp-graphql from github.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:wp-graphql/wp-graphql.git
```

Build the plugin and dependencies:

```shell
composer install
```

Or if you don't have composer installed or prefer building it in a docker instance:

```shell
docker run -v $PWD:/app composer --ignore-platform-reqs install
```

Build the app and testing docker images:

```shell
composer build-app
composer build-test
```

In one terminal window, start the WordPress app:

```shell
composer run-app
```

In your web browser, open the site, [http://localhost:8091]().  And the WP admin at [http://localhost:8091/wp-admin](). Username is `admin`. Password is `password`.

### Using XDebug

#### Local WordPress Site With XDebug

Use the environment variable USING\_XDEBUG to start the docker image and WordPress with xdebug configured to use port 9003 to communicated with your IDE.

```shell
export USING_XDEBUG=1
composer run-app
```

You should see output in the terminal like the following examples that indicate xdebug is indeed enabled and running in the app:

```shell
app_1      | Enabling XDebug 3
app_1      | [01-Apr-2021 04:43:53 UTC] Xdebug: [Step Debug] Could not connect to debugging client. Tried: host.docker.internal:9003 (through   xdebug.client_host/xdebug.client_port) :-(
```

Start your IDE, like VSCode. Enable xdebug and set breakpoints. Load pages in your browsers and you should experience the IDE pausing the page load and showing the breakpoint.

#### Using XDebug with unit Tests

See the testing page on running the unit test suite.  These instructions show how to enable xdebug for those unit tests and allow debugging in an IDE.

Use the environment variable USING\_XDEBUG to run tests with xdebug configured to use port 9003 to communicated with your IDE.

```shell
export USING_XDEBUG=1
composer run-tests
```

Use the environment variable SUITES to specify individual test files for quicker runs.

#### Configure VSCode IDE Launch File

Create or add the following configuration to your `.vscode/launch.json` in the root directory. Restart VSCode. Start the debug listener before running the app or testing images.

If you have WordPress core files in a directory for local development, you can add the location to the `pathMappings` for debug step through.

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Listen for Xdebug",
            "type": "php",
            "request": "launch",
            "port": 9003,
            "xdebugSettings": {
                "max_children": 128,
                "max_data": 1024,
                "max_depth": 3,
                "show_hidden": 1
            },
            "pathMappings": {
                "/var/www/html/wp-content/plugins/wp-graphql": "${workspaceFolder}",
                "/var/www/html": "${workspaceFolder}/wordpress",
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

Commit message:

- rename .cursorrules to .cursorrules.example - add .cursor, .cursorrules and .cursorrules.example to .distignore - add .cursorrules to .gitignore allowing users to copy .cursorrules.example to .cursorrules for local development - update docs/contributing.md to document using .cursorrules with the cursor ide

docs/contributing.md, after:

---
uri: "/docs/contributing/"
title: "Contributing"
---

This document will be most useful for developers that want to contribute to WPGraphQL and want to run the docker container locally as well as utilize xdebug for debugging and tracing.

In order to continue, you should follow steps to setup Docker running on your machine.

### Build the WordPress Site

The `app` docker image starts a running WordPress site with the local wp-graphql directory installed and activated. Local changes to the source code is immediately reflects in the app.

First step, clone the source for wp-graphql from github.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:wp-graphql/wp-graphql.git
```

Build the plugin and dependencies:

```shell
composer install
```

Or if you don't have composer installed or prefer building it in a docker instance:

```shell
docker run -v $PWD:/app composer --ignore-platform-reqs install
```

Build the app and testing docker images:

```shell
composer build-app
composer build-test
```

In one terminal window, start the WordPress app:

```shell
composer run-app
```

In your web browser, open the site, [http://localhost:8091]().  And the WP admin at [http://localhost:8091/wp-admin](). Username is `admin`. Password is `password`.

### Using XDebug

#### Local WordPress Site With XDebug

Use the environment variable USING_XDEBUG to start the docker image and WordPress with xdebug configured to use port 9003 to communicated with your IDE.

```shell
export USING_XDEBUG=1
composer run-app
```

You should see output in the terminal like the following examples that indicate xdebug is indeed enabled and running in the app:

```shell
app_1      | Enabling XDebug 3
app_1      | [01-Apr-2021 04:43:53 UTC] Xdebug: [Step Debug] Could not connect to debugging client. Tried: host.docker.internal:9003 (through   xdebug.client_host/xdebug.client_port) :-(
```

Start your IDE, like VSCode. Enable xdebug and set breakpoints. Load pages in your browsers and you should experience the IDE pausing the page load and showing the breakpoint.

#### Using XDebug with unit Tests

See the testing page on running the unit test suite.  These instructions show how to enable xdebug for those unit tests and allow debugging in an IDE.

Use the environment variable USING_XDEBUG to run tests with xdebug configured to use port 9003 to communicated with your IDE.

```shell
export USING_XDEBUG=1
composer run-tests
```

Use the environment variable SUITES to specify individual test files for quicker runs.

#### Configure VSCode IDE Launch File

Create or add the following configuration to your `.vscode/launch.json` in the root directory. Restart VSCode. Start the debug listener before running the app or testing images.

If you have WordPress core files in a directory for local development, you can add the location to the `pathMappings` for debug step through.

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Listen for Xdebug",
            "type": "php",
            "request": "launch",
            "port": 9003,
            "xdebugSettings": {
                "max_children": 128,
                "max_data": 1024,
                "max_depth": 3,
                "show_hidden": 1
            },
            "pathMappings": {
                "/var/www/html/wp-content/plugins/wp-graphql": "${workspaceFolder}",
                "/var/www/html": "${workspaceFolder}/wordpress",
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

### Using Cursor IDE with AI Assistance

If you're using the [Cursor IDE](https://cursor.sh), you can take advantage of AI assistance specifically configured for WPGraphQL development:

1. Copy the example Cursor rules file to set up AI assistance:
   ```shell
   cp .cursorrules.example .cursorrules
   ```

2. The `.cursorrules` file helps Cursor's AI understand:
   - Project architecture and key concepts
   - Common code patterns
   - Directory structure
   - Important files and their purposes
   - Debug tools and development workflows

3. You can customize your local `.cursorrules` file as needed. This file is gitignored and won't affect other contributors.

4. Cursor will automatically read this file when you open the project - no additional configuration needed.

The `.cursorrules.example` file in the repository serves as a template and is maintained by the community to help new contributors understand the project structure and common patterns.
